Namaste!
Starting with why!
About ninety-two days ago, in Quotidian-108,
while referring to the philosophy of Short
and Sweet, I spoke thus!
Simon Sinek shot to fame when he wrote this
amazing book titled “Start With Why”.
It refers to a concept called The Golden Circle.
We will surely dig deeper into this in a forthcoming
Quotidian.
And, ninety-two days have gone by, and I never
got back to talking about that book and that
concept.
Something supposedly referred to as The Golden
Circle.
So, I thought I should close out that pending
issue.
The Golden Circle is, in fact, a pretty simple
concept.
But, a profound and very impactful concept.
He said, be it a company, or a specific individual,
their outwardly behaviour, their outwardly
demonstration, what they can create, what
they have created, what they get to eventually
show, that level is the WHAT level.
What are you?
What do you produce?
What is this product?
Superficial…
Surface level.
You shouldn’t focus just on that, if you
are an entrepreneur, if you are striking out
on making a mark in this world…
Not even with the How!
How do you do what you do?!
Even that is not enough.
You have to go deeper inside.
And go to the core of your being.
The reason for your existence.
You are a living human being?
Well, why are you still alive?!
What is the reason for your existence?
Are you a company?
Why were you founded?
Why do you even exist?
Answers to that question!
If you stand in front of that mirror, ask
that question repeatedly, search for the answer,
then, magically, the How and What will fall
in place automatically!
That is the message of that book.
So, if you look at it, what you do is at the
surface.
How do you do what you do??
What is the process?
What is your belief system?
What are your values?
What kind of people do you attract to get
the job done?
What are the places you have established your
company in?
That is the How!
But, deep inside is, Why do you do what you
do.
What is the overall purpose.
Why do you even exist.
This, by the way, is his life’s mission.
If you ask Simon Sinek what his Why is, he
would proudly say, “To ensure ever human
being on this earth lives a happy and satisfied
life because they have found their Why”.
This is the overarching theme in that book.
He says, People don’t buy what you do.
They buy why you do it.
They buy it because they understand and relate
to why you are building that product.
There is a cute little advantage too, in focusing
on the Why.
Just a few days ago, we talked about Jumping
The Curve.
When you jump the curve, the product may change.
When you jump the curve, the process, and
the How, might change.
You will have to try your best and retain
the Why, though, when you jump the curve.
Take a look at these examples:- Our mission:-
To bring inspiration and innovation to every
athlete in the world!
(Who is an athlete?
— If you have a body, you are an athlete,
they clarify!)
What a wide-ranging all-catching mission statement!
Who?
Nike!
If they had gone with “We Sell Shoes”,
would they have been able to sell fitness
bands?
T Shirts?
Our mission is to bring inspiration and innovation,
they said, and immediately, everything fell
inside that basket!
Our mission is to organise the world’s information
resources so that they become widely available
and useful for everyone — claims this company.
Yes, Google!
They didn’t proclaim that their intent is
to become the world’s greatest search engine!
Did they?
If they had done that, would there have been
a way out for them to launch Maps, Chat, Mail,
and so on?
Could they have entered those markets?
“It’s our goal to be Earth’s most customer-centric
company, where customers can find and discover
anything they might want to buy online”
— Again a wide-ranging all-catching statement.
Who are these guys?
Amazon!
Did he say he wanted to just sell books??
Had he done that, would Jeff Bezos be able
to sell an Amazon Echo and Amazon Web Services??
“Give people the power to share and make
the world more open and connected” — claims
this company.
Note that it is not saying, “Be a social
network where anybody can befriend anybody
else”.
Nor “Play Candy Crush and Farmville”.
But, all of those, fall into this bucket!
Because, this is their mission statement.
The Why.
Why do you exist?
Well, I want to make it easier for people
to connect with people.
Could be on a mobile phone.
Could be in a web browser.
Could be in real life.
That is Facebook!
Now, take a look at this!
Once upon a time there was a dash.
Every day, dash happened.
One day, dash happened.
Because of that, dash.
Until finally, dash!
This is the structure of almost any story!
And, this is the core that this company wants
to own!
Disney!
And Disney says, today, that it is in the
business of telling stories!
On a TV Channel?
In the movie theatres?
At an amusement park?
We.
Tell.
Stories.
Who doesn’t like listening to stories?!
And, that is the catch-all.
That is their Why.
Why was Disney even founded?
Mr. Walt Disney wanted to regale his nieces
and nephews with stories.
Amazing stories!
How about this?
Think Different!
No questions!
It has to be Apple!
We don’t want to do what everybody else
is doing.
We want to do what nobody else is doing.
Simple!
No wonder it is such a world-class company
that is coming up with amazingly innovative
products.
Starting with why.
The other advantage is, copying is harder
when you have a very strong why.
When you make every decision, when you make
every move, when every one of your What and
How align with your Why, copying is harder.
If it is your What that you claim to be unique
and best, well, they can just walk into your
shop, survey it, learn about it, and make
a copy-cat product.
If it is your How that you claim to be special,
we can send a spy to your factory, to your
manufacturing zone, and probably make a copy
of your product.
But, if you Start With Why, if your foundational
thoughts are about your Why, they have to
dig into your mind!
They have to come deep inside!
That is because, every one of your decisions
may seem silly, illogical, different, even
foolish, to them.
But, when you look inside, every one of your
moves, every next thing you launch, every
new process you adopt, will be aligned with
your internal Why.
You as a person, you as a founding team, will
have that thing lined up.
So, start with why!
And that’s the most important thing you
should do.
Further, in that book “Start With Why”,
the author lays out three amazing and pithy
principles.
Clarity of Why.
Instead of being all over the place, nebulous
and unclear, the Why should be as simple as
it is clear.
Next, there has to be a Discipline in the
How.
Decide what the process is going to be.
Without slipping away, without swerving from
it ever, without bending, breaking, no questions
asked, with excellent discipline, one has
to adhere to the How.
If there is Clarity of Why and Discipline
of How, but if your What is a bit inconsistent,
that is not good either.
So, the final product, the thing that you
give out to the world?
That has to be consistent.
So, Clarity of Why, with a Disciplined approach
of How, ending in a beautiful Consistency
of What.
That’s what he says!
Even in my Quotidians, for example, What do
I do?
Well, I make videos on Youtube.
But, is that my Why?
To make videos on YouTube?
No!
How do I do it?
I have a green screen?
I have some software.
I put some research into it.
Is that my Why?
What is my Why?
My Why is to collect amazing bits of information
from around the world, and make it useful,
make it palatable, make it understandable
to Tamil youth of the world.
Oh, well, there is a little secret personal
selfish Why also, to this.
In the process of teaching you stuff, I am
learning too!
Every day!
That is my Why!
So, if suddenly, one day, I switch to live
video, or if I start writing a blog, if I
suddenly publish a book, they will all fall
under the reaching-out that I just stated.
That is the speciality of starting with a
Why.
But…
I have a question to ask about this.
Is Starting With Why right?
Is Starting With Why enough?
Let us check that out tomorrow!
Thank you!